---
layout: post
title: "How To FULLY Disable Spotlight in Leopard"
---

*Warning:* This is changing system settings that may or may not be attached to other tools. After an extensive search on the internet, one of these tools affected by the following steps is "TimeMachine":http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/timemachine.html/"TimeCapsule":http://www.apple.com/timecapsule/. If you are using them, I would *not* follow these steps. Rule of thumb: if you think it will mess up your system and you don't want to worry about that, don't do it.

h3. Quick way

To disable:

{% highlight bash %}
sudo launchctl unload /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
launchctl unload /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
{% endhighlight %}

To re-enable:

{% highlight bash %}
sudo launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Explanation

# Stop and disable the background server:
    * Kill the Daemon:
        {% highlight bash %}
        sudo launchctl unload /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
        sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
        {% endhighlight %}
    * Re-enable the Daemon:
        {% highlight bash %}
        sudo launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
        sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
        {% endhighlight %}
# Stop and disable the spotlight application itself:
    * Kill the Agent:
        {% highlight bash %}
        launchctl unload /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
        sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
        {% endhighlight %}
    * Re-enable the Agent:
        {% highlight bash %}
        launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
        sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
        {% endhighlight %}

You may get an error on the last command; just ignore it.

h3. What it does

# We stop the process from running.
    {% highlight bash %}
    sudo launchctl unload /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
    {% endhighlight %}
# The following line tells the system to fully disable it.
    {% highlight bash %}
    sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
    {% endhighlight %}
# Now we need to stop the agent for the user and everyone else.
    {% highlight bash %}
    launchctl unload /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
    sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
    {% endhighlight %}

h3. The re-enable Spotlight back again:

# If you need to re-enable the process, you can run the following two lines.
    {% highlight bash %}
    sudo launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
    sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.metadata.mds.plist
    {% endhighlight %}
# The following two lines re-enable the Spotlight agent.
    {% highlight bash %}
    launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
    sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.Spotlight.plist
    {% endhighlight %}

The reason you get the error is that you are effectively executing the command as root, but the root user hasn't any running instance of Spotlight. On the other hand, only the root user is able to disable the automatic start of Spotlight. Thus the need for the sudo command.

Done!

There's no need to reboot your computer after following these steps.