---
layout: post
title: "Unroot and Reset the Sprint Galaxy Nexus - Mac"
---

bq. **Warning**: The following steps WILL format the device. Be sure to do a complete backup before preceeding.

# Download the "Android SDK":http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html.
# Install the SDK as instructed.
# Follow the instructions on this page from the Android SDK's ""Adding Platforms and Packages":http://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/adding-packages.html"
# Check and install the "Android SDK Platform-Tools" only.
# You should have a directory called @android-sdk-mac_x86@. Within that, there should be directory called @Platform-Tools@.
# Go as instructed to the ""Return To Stock (ODIN TARS & FASTBOOT IMGS)":http://forums.androidcentral.com/sprint-galaxy-nexus/206954-guide-return-stock-odin-tars-fastboot-imgs.html#post2140080" page. Second post will have the FASTBOOT images. For stock Jelly Bean search for **FH05**. There is 6 files that need to download.
# Place all the downloaded files inside @android-sdk-mac_x86/platform-tools/@ directory.
# Shut down the device, then press and hold Volume Up, Volumn Down, and Power at the same time. This will enter to the bootloader.
# Connect the device via USB to the computer.
# Open terminal and go into the "platform-tools" directory.
# Enter the following lines, one at a time.

{% highlight bash %}
./fastboot flash boot boot.img
./fastboot flash bootloader bootloader.img
./fastboot flash recovery recovery.img
./fastboot flash system system.img
./fastboot flash radio radio-cdma.img
./fastboot flash radio radio-lte.img
./fastboot -w
{% endhighlight %}

Enter the following to lock the device also.
{% highlight bash %}
fastboot oem lock
{% endhighlight %}
